Herewith - a major underlying reason for USA's 'interest' in Iran
IRANIAN OIL BOURSE

Commissioned by: J. Douglas Bowey and Associates Analysis
by: Krassimir Petrov, Ph.D. Austrian Macro Economist/Investment
Strategist Date: 16 January 2006

The Iranian government has recently proposed to open in March 2006 an
Iranian Oil Bourse that will be based on an euro-based oil-trading
mechanism that naturally implies payment for oil in Euro. In economic
terms, this represents a much greater threat to the hegemony of the
dollar than Saddam s, because it will allow anyone willing either to buy
or to sell oil for Euro to transact on the exchange, thus circumventing
the U.S. dollar altogether. If so, then it is likely that much of the
world will eagerly adopt this euro-denominated oil system:

· The Europeans will not have to buy and hold dollars in order to secure
their payment for oil, but would instead use with their own currency.

· The Chinese and the Japanese will be especially eager to adopt the new
exchange. It will allow them to drastically lower their enormous dollar
reserves and diversify them with Euros. One portion of their dollars
they will still want to hold onto; another portion of their dollar
holdings they may decide to dump outright; a third portion of their
hoards they will decide to use up for future payments without
replenishing their dollar holdings, but building up instead their euro
reserves.

· The Russians have economic interest in adopting the Euro the bulk of
their trade is with European countries, with oil-exporting countries,
with China, and with Japan. Adoption of the Euro will immediately take
care of the first two blocs, and will over time facilitate trade with
China and Japan. Also, Russians seemingly detest holding depreciating
dollars, for they have recently found a new religion with gold: their
central bank is diversifying out of dollars and accumulating gold.
Russians have also revived their nationalism; if embracing the Euro will
stab the Americans, they will gladly do it and smugly watch the
Americans bleed.

· The Arab oil-exporting countries will eagerly adopt the Euro as a
means of diversification against rising mountains of depreciating
dollars. Just like the Russians, their trade is mostly with European
countries, and therefore will prefer the European currency both for its
stability and for avoiding currency risk.

Only the British will find themselves between a rock and a hard place.
They have had a strategic partnership with the U.S. forever, but have
also had their natural pull from Europe. So far, they have had many
reasons to stick with the winner. However, when they see their century-
old partner falling, will they firmly stand behind him or will they
deliver the coup de grace? Still, we should not forget that currently
the two leading oil exchanges are the New York s NYMEX and the London s
International Petroleum Exchange (IPE), even though both of them are
effectively owned by Americans. It seems more likely that the British
will have to go down with the sinking ship, for otherwise they will be
shooting themselves in the foot by hurting their own London IPE
interests. It is here noteworthy that for all the rhetoric about the
reasons for the surviving British Pound, the British most likely did not
adopt the Euro namely because the Americans must have pressured them not
to: otherwise the London IPE would have had to switch to Euros, thus
mortally wounding the dollar and their strategic partner.

At any rate, no matter what the British decide, should the Iranian Oil
Bourse gain momentum and accelerate, the interests that matter those of
Europeans, Chinese, Japanese, Russians, and Arabs will eagerly adopt the
Euro, thus sealing the fate of the dollar. Americans cannot allow this
to happen, and if necessary, will use a vast array of strategies to halt
or hobble the exchange s operations:

· Sabotaging the Exchange this could be a computer virus, network,
communications, or server attack, various server security breaches, or a
9-11-type attack on main and backup facilities.

· Coup d état this is by far the best long-term strategy available to
the Americans.

· Negotiating Acceptable Terms & Limitations this is another excellent
solution to the Americans. Of course, a government coup is clearly the
preferred strategy, for it will ensure that the exchange does not
operate at all and does not threaten American interests. However, if an
attempted sabotage or coup d etat fail, then negotiation is clearly the
second-best available option.

· Joint U.N. War Resolution this will be, no doubt, hard to secure given
the interests of all other members of the Security Council. Recent
rhetoric about Iranians developing nuclear weapons undoubtedly serves to
prepare this course of action.

· Unilateral Nuclear Strike this is a terrible strategic choice for all
the reasons associated with the next strategy, the Unilateral Total War.
The American will likely use Israel to do their dirty nuclear job.

· Unilateral Total War this is obviously the worst strategic choice.
First, the U.S. military resources have been already depleted with two
wars. Secondly, the Americans will alienate other powerful nations.
Third, major reserve countries may decide to quietly retaliate by
dumping their own mountains of dollars, thus preventing the U.S. from
further financing its militant ambitions. Finally, Iran has strategic
alliances with other powerful nations that may trigger their involvement
in war; Iran reputedly has such alliance with China, India, and Russia,
known as the Shanghai Cooperative Group, a.k.a. Shanghai Coop.

Whatever the strategic choice, from a purely economic point of view,
should the Iranian Oil Bourse gain momentum, it will be eagerly embraced
by major economic powers and will precipitate the demise of the dollar.

................................................................

IRAN'S OIL-EXCHANGE THREATENS THE GREENBACK
By Mike Whitney
http://www.informationclearinghouse.info/article11654.htm

01/23/06 "ICH" -- -- The Bush administration will never allow the
Iranian government to open an oil exchange (bourse) that trades
petroleum in euros. If that were to happen, hundreds of billions of
dollars would come flooding back to the United States crushing the
greenback and destroying the economy. This is why Bush and Co. are
planning to lead the nation to war against Iran. It is straightforward
defense of the current global system and the continuing dominance of the
reserve currency, the dollar.

The claim that Iran is developing nuclear weapons is a mere pretext for
war. The NIE (National Intelligence Estimate) predicts that Iran will
not be able to produce nukes for perhaps a decade. So too, IAEA chief
Mohammed ElBaradei has said repeatedly that his watchdog agency has
found "no evidence" of a nuclear weapons program.

There are no nuclear weapons or nuclear weapons programs, but Iran's
economic plans do pose an existential threat to America, and not one
that can be simply brushed aside as the unavoidable workings of the free
market.

America monopolizes the oil trade. Oil is denominated in dollars and
sold on either the NYMEX or London's International Petroleum Exchange
(IPE), both owned by Americans. This forces the central banks around the
world to maintain huge stockpiles of dollars even though the greenback
is currently underwritten by $8 trillion of debt and even though the
Bush administration has said that it will perpetuate the deficit-
producing tax cuts.

America's currency monopoly is the perfect pyramid-scheme. As long as
nations are forced to buy oil in dollars, the United States can continue
its profligate spending with impunity. (The dollar now accounts for 68%
of global currency reserves up from 51% just a decade ago) The only
threat to this strategy is the prospect of competition from an
independent oil exchange; forcing the faltering dollar to go nose-to-
nose with a more stable (debt-free) currency such as the euro. That
would compel central banks to diversify their holdings, sending billions
of dollars back to America and ensuring a devastating cycle of hyper-
inflation.

The effort to keep information about Iran's oil exchange out of the
headlines has been extremely successful. A simple Google search shows
that NONE of the major newspapers or networks has referred to the
upcoming bourse. The media's aversion to controversial stories which
serve the public interest has been evident in many other cases, too,
like the fraudulent 2004 presidential elections, the Downing Street
Memo, and the flattening of Falluja. Rather than inform, the media
serves as a bullhorn for government policy; manipulating public opinion
by reiterating the specious demagoguery of the Bush administration. As a
result, few people have any idea of the gravity of the present threat
facing the American economy.

This is not a "liberal vs. conservative" issue. Those who've analyzed
the problem draw the very same conclusions; if the Iran exchange
flourishes the dollar will plummet and the American economy will
shatter.

This is what author Krassimir Petrov, Ph.D in economics, says in a
recent article The Proposed Iranian Oil Bourse (complete article below):

"From a purely economic point of view, should the Iranian Oil Bourse
gain momentum, it will be eagerly embraced by major economic powers and
will precipitate the demise of the dollar. The collapsing dollar will
dramatically accelerate U.S. inflation and will pressure upward U.S.
long-term interest rates. At this point, the Fed will find itself
between ?between deflation and hyperinflation-it will be forced fast
either to take its "classical medicine" by deflating, whereby it raises
interest rates, thus inducing a major economic depression, a collapse in
real estate, and an implosion in bond, stock, and derivative markets,
with a total financial collapse, or alternatively, to take the Weimar
way out by inflating, whereby it pegs the long-bond yield, raises the
Helicopters and drowns the financial system in liquidity, bailing out
numerous LTCMs and hyperinflating the economy.

No doubt, Commander-in-Chief Ben Bernanke, a renowned scholar of the
Great Depression?, will choose inflation. ?The Maestro has taught him
the panacea of every single financial problem-to inflate, come hell or
high water. ?To avoid deflation, he will resort to the printing
presses?and, if necessary, he will monetize everything in sight. His
ultimate accomplishment will be the hyperinflationary destruction of the
American currency ?"

So, raise interest rates and bring on "total financial collapse" or take
the "Weimar way out" and cause the "hyperinflationary destruction of the
American economy."

These are not good choices, and yet, we're hearing the same
pronouncements from right-wing analysts. Alan Peter's article, "Mullah's
Threat not Sinking In", which appeared in FrontPage Magazine.com, offers
these equally sobering thoughts about the dangers of an Iran oil-
exchange:

"A glut of dollar holdings by Central Banks and among Asian lenders,
plus the current low interest rate offered to investor/lenders by the
USA has been putting the dollar in jeopardy for some time? A twitching
finger on currency's hair-trigger can shoot down the dollar without any
purposeful ill intent. Most estimates place the likely drop to "floor
levels" at a rapid 50% loss in value for a presently 40% overvalued
Dollar."

The erosion of the greenback's value was predicted by former Fed-chief
Paul Volcker who said that there is a "75% chance of a dollar crash in
the next 5 years".

Such a crash would result in soaring interest rates, hyperinflation,
skyrocketing energy costs, massive unemployment and, perhaps,
depression. This is the troubling scenario if an Iran bourse gets
established and knocks the dollar from its lofty perch. And this is what
makes the prospect of war, even nuclear war, so very likely.

Peter's continues:

"With economies so interdependent and interwoven, a global, not just
American Depression would occur with a domino effect throwing the rest
of world economies into poverty. Markets for acutely less expensive US
exports would never materialize.

The result, some SME's estimate, might be as many as 200 million
Americans out of work and starving on the streets with nobody and
nothing able to rescue or aid them, contrary to the 1920/30 Great
Depression through soup kitchens and charitable support efforts."

Liberal or conservative, the analysis is the same. If America does not
address the catastrophic potential of the Iran bourse, Americans can
expect to face dire circumstances.

Now we can understand why the corporate-friendly media has omitted any
mention of new oil exchange in their coverage. This is one secret that
the boardroom kingpins would rather keep to themselves. It's easier to
convince the public of nuclear hobgoblins and Islamic fanatics than to
justify fighting a war for the anemic greenback. Never the less, it is
the dollar we are defending in Iraq and, presumably, in Iran as well in
the very near future. (Saddam converted to the euro in 2000. The bombing
began in 2001)

There are peaceful solutions to this dilemma, but not if the Bush
administration insists on hiding behind the moronic deception of
terrorism or imaginary nuclear weapons programs. Bush needs to come
clean with the American people about the real nature of the global
energy crisis and stop invoking Bin Laden and WMD to defend American
aggression. We need a comprehensive energy strategy, (including
government funding for conservation projects, alternative energy-
sources, and the development of a new line of "American-made" hybrid
vehicles) candid negotiations with Iran to regulate the amount of oil
they will sell in euros per year (easing away from the dollar in an
orderly way) and a collective "international" approach to energy
consumption and distribution (under the auspices of the UN General
Assembly)

Greater parity among currencies should be encouraged as a way of
strengthening democracies and invigorating markets. It promises to
breathe new life into free trade by allowing other political models to
flourish without fear of being subsumed into the capitalist prototype.
The current dominance of the greenback has created a global empire that
is largely dependent on debt, torture, and war to maintain its
supremacy.

Iran's oil bourse poses the greatest challenge yet to the dollar-
monopoly and its proponents at the Federal Reserve. If the Bush
administration goes ahead with a preemptive "nuclear" strike on alleged
weapons sites, allies will be further alienated and others will be
forced to respond. As Dr. Petrov says, "Major dollar-holding countries
may decide to quietly retaliate by dumping their own mountains of
dollars, thus preventing the U.S. from further financing its militant
ambitions."

There is increasing likelihood that the foremost champions of the
present system will be the very one's to bring about its downfall.



